---
title: Scrum
---
I'll need to clarify that this is not a problem in Scrum itself,
Scrum doesn't tell us to ignore technical practices, **Martin
Fowler** defended Scrum in the same article "Flaccid Scrum" 

> I've mentioned Scrum because when we see this problem, Scrum
seems to be particularly common as the nominative process the
team is following. 

> In defense of Scrum, it's important to point out that just
because it doesn't include technical activities within its scope
should not lead anyone to conclude that it doesn't think they
are important. Whenever I've listened to prominent Scrummers
they've always emphasized that you must have good technical
practices to succeed with a Scrum project. They don't mandate
what those technical practices should be, but you do need them.

Also **Ron Jeffries** mentioned that Scrum is actually trying to
change all what he described as Dark Scrum. But until the hearts
and minds of the organization actually change, there’ll be too
much of the old-style management happening … and now it happens
every couple of weeks … often every single day!



Furthermore **[Ken
Shwaber](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ken_Schwaber)** - Coauthor
of Scrum and Agile Manifesto -  agrees Martin Fowler on "Flaccid
Scrum". If you'd like to see the creator of Scrum "inspect and
adapt", please check his
[letter](https://www.scrum.org/index.php/about) in why he
created "Scrum.org". It's kind of retrospective, Scrum Guide
itself and PSM certificate were action items to fight "Flaccid Scrum".
